Hi friends
In this video we're going to discuss about passing an
array into a function.
So first of all consider a programme which passes array
elements into a function
So here we have the main function and there we are
declaring an integer array arr with elements 10 20 30 40
and 50
And now we declare an integer variable i. now in
a for loop  we are calling the function display(arr[i])
so in each iteration the element of array will
be passed to the function display
So in the first iteration we are calling the function
by passing arr[0] which is 10 and it will
be printed in the function
In the second iteration we are calling the function by passing
arr[1] that is 20 which will be
printed in the third iteration
We are calling the function by passing arr[2] that
is 30 which will be printed. In the fourth iteration
we are calling the function by passing arr[3] which
is 40 and it will be printed. In the fifth iteration
We're calling the function by passing arr[4] which
is 50 and it is printed.
In the sixth iteration condition fails and control comes
out of for loop and the programme returns zero Now let us
see what happens if we pass an entire array
into a function
So consider the programme with main function and the user
defined function display
First we create the array with elements 10 20 30 40
and 50
Now we call the function display by passing arr and 5
So we are passing the name of the array
So when we passed the array name into a
function the address of the first element or the base
address of the array is passed into the function
Remember that the entire elements will not be passed into
the function so here 1024 is passed into the function
here
In the function parameter, the size of array is optional
Now in a for loop we are printing each element
in the first iteration 10 is printed and in the second
iteration 20 is printed and in the third iteration 30 is printed
and in the fourth iteration 40 is printed and finally in
the fifth iteration 50 is printed. In the sixth iteration
condition i less than  size fails and control returns to main
and return zero.
Now what if we had an assignment statement like this?
array[2] = 100 then third element is set
So it is important that since we are passing the
reference to the function if we modify the array elements
it will change the actual value of the array
So that's all and thank you for watching this video